[Music]
ooh talk about bad luck 19 signs you'd
be called a witch in the Middle Ages as
if the black dress and broomstick
wouldn't give you away
so has it ever come to your mind that
you'd make a great witch let's check
whether people in the 17th century would
have agreed with you these signs will
show if your impersonation of Maleficent
is justifiable but first of all hit the
subscribe button and ring the
notification bell to join us on the
bright side you're a female yeah it's as
simple as that during medieval times all
women were closely associated with
witchcraft by default during the
infamous witch trials in Salem
Massachusetts which lasted from 1692 to
1690 314 women and only five men were
convicted for engaging in witchcraft but
in general throughout history there were
many more women prosecuted for witchery
than men during all the medieval witch
trials not just the ones in Salem more
than 85% of all the convicted were women
[Music]
number 18 you're a woman and you're too
rich for your own good
[Music]
so that makes you a what a rich witch if
you're an adult independent woman and
don't have any additional financial
support this would have qualified you as
a witch several centuries ago if there
were rumors that a woman was leading a
comfortable life without a man's help or
supervision hmm this instantly raised an
alarm not only did these women become
isolated they could also be arrested and
taken to court number 17 dear to poor
well it wasn't recommended for a single
woman specifically to be too well-off in
the 17th century it was considered a bad
sign for both men and women to be too
poor homeless people and beggars were
often accused of being witches anybody
who didn't like people wandering around
the neighborhood asking for food and
money could rat them out to the
authorities as witches Wow
number 16 you're too young now very
young girls were often believed to be
witches
when interrogated and put under enough
pressure these young people who
confessed often said that they got their
witchy abilities from a parent and then
the whole family would be charged boy
wait till dad gets a hold of you
children as young as four years old
we're kept in jail due to false
accusations of witchcraft
number 15 well you're too old okay I'm
starting to see a pattern here
a respectable wise age couldn't protect
a woman either quite the contrary
older women whether they were married or
not were extremely vulnerable to
accusations it was believed that evil
forces help these women reach such an
old age number 14 you're a married woman
with too many kids according to popular
opinion back then only dark magic could
provide a woman with an extremely
fertile womb and if there was a young
couple in the neighborhood that had
problems conceiving or giving birth to a
baby what else is she gonna give birth
to a raccoon well this was a clear sign
that a mother with too many children
stole their potential kids from them
plus there was no doubt that she was a
witch number 13
you're a married woman with no kids ah
come on now you're kidding right if you
were a married woman but had too few
kids or no children at all those around
you believed that you had been cursed
with infertility on top of that if a
family with many kids that live nearby
had any problems it was of course 100%
your fault it must have been you
who hex their household out of jealousy
yeah right number 12 you have more than
one female friend now if you were a
woman who had several female friends and
you gathered together without a male
presence you could be suspected of
witchcraft
one of the infamous witch hunters
Matthew Hopkins actually started this
whole business after overhearing several
women just hanging out they were talking
about things that in his opinion were
connected with witchery number eleven
you're a woman who has argued with a
friend or a neighbor witch hunters held
such power in the community and were
feared so much that many people used it
to their advantage and accuse their
enemies of witchery this approach helped
them to take revenge on someone they'd
had an argument with at some point or
another number 10 you have a rebellious
character if people characterize you as
a stubborn straightforward or
short-tempered person chances are you
would have been convicted as a witch in
the 17th century a rebellious attitude
losing your temper and backtalk would
have convinced everybody around of your
witchy nature and if any of your threats
had come true well it wouldn't have
ended nicely for you number 9 you can
swim
most of us nowadays learn how to swim
when we're kids and we have fun doing it
our whole lives but several centuries
ago people believed that only witches
could swim that's why women suspected of
witchery were lowered into water if they
didn't manage to get out they were
innocent not that this helped them at
all but if a woman reached the surface
it meant evil forces were on her side
authorities needed no more evidence that
she was a witch
number eight you're a married woman
having an affair well this was the worst
thing a woman could be involved in if
her adultery was caught
there was no way at all to avoid being
convicted as a witch she had no chances
of survival in this case number seven
you try to predict your future husband's
identity you know those games kids play
that tell you the name of your future
husband or wife where you'll live
how many kids you'll have and what not
innocent child's play right well not
during medieval times a woman named
Tituba encourage girls to fortune tell
the names of their future husbands as a
result she became the first woman in
Salem who was convicted as a witch
number six you're a midwife
[Music]
unfortunately midwives who help other
women during pregnancy and labor were
considered witches in the 17th century
authorities believe that their knowledge
of herbs and ancient medicine was
connected with evil forces not to
mention people thought that this
profession was demeaning and unclean and
that's why helpful and useful midwives
were targeted Wow still longing for the
good old days number five do you have a
habit of talking to yourself if you
occasionally mutter something to
yourself be it a shopping list or an
earworm you must be a witch at least
that's what people in the 17th century
believed for example in 1692 during the
Salem trials a woman named Sarah Goode
was accused of practicing witchcraft she
happened to have a little habit of
talking to herself and she'd often do
this as she was leaving her neighbor's
houses and wellgood claimed that she was
reciting Psalms accuser stated that she
was casting spells and thus she was
convicted
number four you aren't good at public
speaking now if you lose heart every
time you have to speak in public you
would have been at risk for being called
a witch during the Middle Ages Wow Dale
Carnegie where are you at that time
people believe that witches couldn't
read the Bible out loud that's why one
way to test a person was to make them
read from it in front of a crowd if the
suspect couldn't read it aloud or
stumbled this meant that they practice
witchery yeah I get the connection as
you see nobody cared about the fact that
most people during those times were
either illiterate or felt uneasy
speaking in public besides all of them
were utterly terrified I mean wouldn't
you be too if you were accused and
standing in front of a crowd of angry
people trying to prove your innocence
holy Margaret Hamilton she's the witch
from The Wizard of Oz number three milk
or butter has gone bad in your fridge um
since when do they have refrigerators
back in the 17th century well during the
Salem witch trials
several people testified that dairy
products often spoiled in the presence
of a witch well you better check the
expiration dates of the milk and other
dairy foods in your fridge who knows
what your neighbors might think
number two you have a pet
[Music]
blackcats magic witchcraft you probably
know this association but even if your
pet isn't black and doesn't belong to
the feline family you'd still have
higher chances of being called a witch
in those days almost any pet was
considered a familiar and if you had a
familiar in its animal form it was a
sure sign that you were a witch
such animals were supposed to assist
their masters in practicing magic number
one you have a mall or birthmark moles
and birth marks were seen as sure signs
that a woman was marked and practiced
witchcraft back then people believed
that a mole or birthmark was the place
where the witch's familiar such as a
snake a cat or a dog could bite her and
drink her blood so if a woman was
accused of witchcraft all her body hair
was removed until a mark was found and
show me one person who doesn't have a
single mole or birthmark on their body
well so how many signs have proven your
witchy nature let us know about it in
the comments remember give this video a
like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life and stay off that
broomstick
[Music]